Adding a development installation guide for Foreman (#9278)
theforeman/foreman: developer_docs/foreman_dev_setup.asciidoc

[[Containers]]
= Install From Source
:toc: right
:toclevels: 5

Installing the latest development code:
Foreman uses Bundler to install dependencies and get up and running. This is the preferred way to get Foreman if you want to benefit from the latest improvements. By using the git repository you can also upgrade more easily. You will need to have Bundler installed manually for now (check your distribution repositories, or install it via rubygems).

[[prerequisites]]
== Prerequisites
Foreman will run with the following requirements (aside from rubygem dependencies):

* Ruby v2.7.x
* NodeJS v12 or v14
* NPM v6
* PostgreSQL v13

> It’s recommended to install https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv[rbenv] to manage ruby, and https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm[nvm] to manage node and npm on your system.

Reviewer: Worth also mentioning `rvm` here

Before installing PostgreSQL, check first that you don't already have it installed (by running `rpm -q postgresql`).

You will want to make sure that you have postgresql-devel installed so the database gems can install properly.
Also, you would also need gcc, ruby-devel, libxml-devel, libxslt-devel and libvirt-devel packages.

> For RHEL7 or clones, you can issue the following commands to install all required packages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Fedora,  CentOS or RHEL you can issue the following commands to install all required packages:
```

Reviewer 2: Should we also talk about setting up development env on Debian based Operating Systems?

Author: Could be as a follow-up PR, currently I don't have a Debian setup.
Do you know any developer who uses Debian?

Reviewer 3: Would be nice to have it but I would be also happy with leaving that part for the contribution from community.
The only difference would be installing different packages for ruby+rbenv and that can be easily solved by one search in google

[source, bash]
....

> yum groupinstall "Development Tools" "Development Libraries"

Reviewer 2: As we are already deprecating the EL7 should we replace `yum` commands with `dnf`?

    readline-devel systemd-devel tar libcurl-devel
....

[[Setup]]
== Setting the repository
[source, bash]
....
# On Github create your own fork
git clone https://github.com/{GITHUB_USER}/foreman.git -b develop
cd foreman
cp config/settings.yaml.example config/settings.yaml
cp config/database.yml.example config/database.yml
git remote add upstream git@github.com:theforeman/foreman.git
gem install bundler
bundle install
npm install
....

[[Database]]
== Setting the database
It is important that config/database.yml is set to use the correct database in the “development” block.
Rails (and subsequently Foreman) will use these connection settings under “development” to manage the database it uses and setup the necessary schema.

If the default version of the database.yml file isn't working for you, try editing it with the following:
[source, ruby]
....
development:
 adapter: postgresql
 host: localhost
 username: postgres
 password: password
 pool: 5
 database: foreman_development

test:
 adapter: postgresql
 host: localhost
 username: postgres
 password: password
 pool: 5
 database: foreman_test
....

Set up database schema, precompile assets and locales:
[source, ruby]
....

> bundle exec rake db:create # if not already created

Reviewer 3: ```
bundle exec rake db:create
bundle exec rake db:migrate
```
This will create databases only for the `development` environment, for `test` environment you need to run also:
```
RAILS_ENV=test bundle exec rake db:create
RAILS_ENV=test bundle exec rake db:migrate
```

bundle exec rake db:migrate

> bundle exec rake db:seed assets:precompile locale:pack webpack:compile

Reviewer: For dev setup I believe this is enough:
```suggestion
bundle exec rake db:seed
```

....

> The db:seed step will print out the default admin password, record this in order to log in later.

Reviewer: Does it still happen? Better use the `bundle exec rake permissions:reset password=MYPASS`

Author: Should I check if it happens before deleting it?

Author: I didn't forget this, but I didn't finish installing PostgreSQL on my VM, so I will update it when I am done.

[[Running]]
== Running Foreman
In order to run Foreman you can use the following command inside your git repository:
[source, ruby]
....

> bundle exec foreman start

Reviewer 3: We could mention here that you can run Foreman in two separate processes - frontend and rails. This way when you need to restart Foreman (for code reload) you don't have to wait for webpack build:
```
# Rails
bundle exec rails s -b 0.0.0.0 -p 3000

# Frontend
env NODE_ENV=development NOTIFICATIONS_POLLING=99999999 ./node_modules/.bin/webpack-dev-server-without-h2 --config ./config/webpack.config.js
```

Reviewer: yeah, that's really good!
there's also a way to configure an options file for things like the `NOTIFICATIONS_POLLING`
cc @MariaAga

Reviewer 4: `NOTIFICATIONS_POLLING` and `REDUX_LOGGER` are options that can be set in an `.env` file as well as in the cli call, maybe worth mentioning.
 `REDUX_LOGGER` has a boolean value and controls if the foreman will print each redux call in the web console

Reviewer: as discussed offline,
it would be better to execute `bundle exec foreman start webpack` 
which will trigger the webpack script in Procfile: https://github.com/theforeman/foreman/blob/develop/Procfile#L5
@MariaAga how does your `.env` file looks like? 

just like that?
```env
NOTIFICATIONS_POLLING = 99999
REDUX_LOGGER = false
```

Reviewer 4: In the core only setup, yes.
With forklift I also have: (but I think that might be for a more in-depth guide)
```
BIND=0.0.0.0
PORT=3000
RAILS_STARTUP='puma -w 2 -p $PORT --preload'
WEBPACK_OPTS='--https --key /etc/pki/katello/private/katello-apache.key --cert /etc/pki/katello/certs/katello-apache.crt --cacert /etc/pki/katello/certs/katello-default-ca.crt --host 0.0.0.0 --public centos7-luna-devel.fedora.example.com'
REDUX_LOGGER=false
NOTIFICATIONS_POLLING=1000000
```

Author: @Ron-Lavi, do you need me to change something related to this?

Reviewer: Resolving this thread, thanks for adding the `.env` file explanation in the lower section 👍🏼

....

=== Resetting password
If you can't find your admin user's password, you can update its password from rails console:
[source, ruby]
....
bundle exec rake permissions:reset password=changeme
....

Now you can login with `admin` user and its new password.

=== Seeding mock data
[source, ruby]
....
bundle exec rake seed:forgeries
....

All rake tasks are available with the following command:
[source, ruby]
....
bundle exec rake -T
....

[[chrome-driver]]
== Installing chrome-driver

> In progress...

Reviewer: Should we also add some notes or link about forklift?

Reviewer 3: I would be happy with simple description and link to https://github.com/theforeman/forklift Readme where all the information is already there

development:
 adapter: postgresql
 host: localhost
 username: postgres
 password: password
 pool: 5
 database: foreman_development

test:
 adapter: postgresql
 host: localhost
 username: postgres
 password: password
 pool: 5
 database: foreman_test
....

Set up database schema, precompile assets and locales:
[source, ruby]
....
bundle exec rake db:create # if not already created
bundle exec rake db:migrate
bundle exec rake db:seed
....

The db:seed step will print out the default admin password, record this in order to log in later.

The previous commands will create databases only for the development environment, for test environment you need to run also:
[source, ruby]
....
RAILS_ENV=test bundle exec rake db:create
RAILS_ENV=test bundle exec rake db:migrate
....

[[Running]]
== Running Foreman
In order to run Foreman you can use the following command inside your git repository:
[source, bash]
....
bundle exec foreman start
....

You can also run Foreman in two separate processes - frontend and rails. This way when you need to restart Foreman (for code reload) you don't have to wait for webpack build:
[source, bash]
....
# Rails
bundle exec rails s -b 0.0.0.0 -p 3000

# Frontend

> env NODE_ENV=development NOTIFICATIONS_POLLING=99999999 ./node_modules/.bin/webpack-dev-server-without-h2 --config ./config/webpack.config.js

Reviewer 4: I think we should only include the necessary parameters here, so only keep:  `./node_modules/.bin/webpack-dev-server-without-h2 --config config/webpack.config.js`
And explain `NODE_ENV`, `NOTIFICATIONS_POLLING` in the lines under, like with `REDUX_LOGGER`
